Functional Requirements:

Parking Spot Allocation: Automatically assign an available parking spot to a vehicle when it enters, based on the vehicle’s size (e.g., motorcycle, car, bus).

Check-In and Check-Out: Record the entry and exit times of vehicles.

Parking Fee Calculation: Calculate fees based on the duration of stay and vehicle type.

Real-Time Availability Update: Update the availability of parking spots in real-time as vehicles enter and leave.



Parking Lot:
    ID
    Number of Floors
    Number of Spots per Floor
    Availability Status (for each spot)
Vehicle:
    License Plate
    Size (motorcycle, car, bus)
    Entry Time
    Exit Time
Parking Transaction:
    Vehicle ID
    Parking Spot ID
    Entry Time
    Exit Time
    Fee
Algorithm for Spot Allocation:
    When a vehicle enters:

    Iterate through available spots on the current floor based on vehicle size.
    If a spot is found, assign it to the vehicle.
    If not, search for available spots on other floors.
    The algorithm should prioritize closer spots and smaller vehicles for efficient space utilization.

Fee Calculation Logic:
    Calculate parking duration: Exit Time - Entry Time.
    Calculate fee based on:
    Hourly rate for cars and motorcycles.
    Daily rate for buses.
    Additional charges for exceeding the allowed time.
Real-Time Availability Update:
    Update spot availability in real-time when a vehicle enters or leaves.
    Use locks or transactions to ensure data consistency in a multi-user environment.
Interaction Flow:
Vehicle Entry:

    System receives vehicle details.
    Algorithm assigns a parking spot.
    Entry time is recorded.
Vehicle Exit:

    System receives the exit request.
    Calculates the parking duration and fee.
    Updates spot availability.
    Records exit time and fee in the transaction history.
Real-Time Updates:

    Availability status is updated as vehicles enter and exit.

API for Vehicle Entry:

    Endpoint: /parking/entry
    Method: POST
    Parameters:
    Vehicle License Plate
    Vehicle Size
    Return Type: JSON
    Description: Assigns an available parking spot to the vehicle based on size and records the entry time.
API for Vehicle Exit:

    Endpoint: /parking/exit
    Method: POST
    Parameters:
    Vehicle License Plate
    Return Type: JSON
    Description: Records the exit time, calculates parking fees, updates spot availability, and returns the total fee.
API for Real-Time Spot Availability:

    Endpoint: /parking/availability
    Method: GET
    Parameters: None
    Return Type: JSON
    Description: Retrieves real-time information on available parking spots for different vehicle sizes.
API for Parking History:

    Endpoint: /parking/history
    Method: GET
    Parameters:
    Vehicle License Plate (optional)
    Return Type: JSON
    Description: Retrieves the parking history, including entry and exit times, for a specific vehicle or all vehicles.
API for Parking Spot Information:

    Endpoint: /parking/spot/{spot_id}
    Method: GET
    Parameters:
    Spot ID
    Return Type: JSON
    Description: Retrieves details about a specific parking spot, including its availability status and location.
API for Fee Calculation Rules:

    Endpoint: /parking/fees/rules
    Method: GET
    Parameters: None
    Return Type: JSON
    Description: Retrieves the rules and rates for calculating parking fees based on duration and vehicle type.

// Algorithm for spot allocation
function allocateParkingSpot(vehicle):
    for floor in floors:
        for spot in floor.availableSpots:
            if spot.size == vehicle.size:
                reserveSpot(vehicle, spot)
                return spot

    for floor in floors:
        for spot in floor.availableSpots:
            if spot.size >= vehicle.size:
                reserveSpot(vehicle, spot)
                return spot

    return null